Welcome back to Gary's Economics, today weare going
to talk about JeremyHunt and his "Black Swan" events...
Okay so for those who don't know Jeremy Hunt is
the new Chancellor of the United Kingdom he's the
guy in charge of your economy um I'm a big fan
of Jeremy Hunt one of the first videos we ever
put up on the channel explained how Jeremy Hunt
is able to buy houses without paying stamp duty
because he buys them 7 at a time & there's
a special uh exclusion in stamp duty for anyone
who buys more than 7 houses at once so he's
a very wise man he's very good with his taxes
um but today we're going to talk about
Jeremy Hunt's recent speech that he gave
so um obviously as you know the UK economy is
in a bit of a mess there's a lot of problems a
lot of big problems for ordinary people and
Jeremy Hunt's talking about how he's going
to fix it and I watched the speech here um in
the morning and it was largely a lot of empty
platitudes not particularly important but there
was one line which really caught my attention as
I was playing it in the background and it's where he
said that "in the last 10 years we've been faced by
a string of Black Swan events in the economy"
so a 'Black Swan' in economics is is basically a
very rare event black swans are very rare so black
swan events are not supposed to happen very often
um and this idea that the reason the economy
is weak is because we keep getting hit by a
string of of of bad luck basically is um it's
a it's a little bit triggering for me because
my history for those who know on the channel is
I was a trader for a long time and I spent a lot
of time betting that the economy would
be very weak and those bets continue to
be right year after year and the economyhas
continued to be weak year after year and um
if you ask many economists why the
economy has been weak in the last 10
15 years what they would often say is that is
this basically we've been faced by a string of
very unlucky things that happened first
we had the 2008 'Financial Crisis' then we
had the 2011 'Sovereign Debt Crisis' then wehad
'Covid' (2020) now we've had the 'Ukraine War'(2022)
and bad things keep happening and that's why
the economy keeps getting worse and worse um
and I think it's it's very problematic when the
people who are in charge of your economy when
the economy continually has very bad outcomes
for poor and ordinary people have very good
outcomes for very wealthy people like Jeremy
Hunt who is himself a very very wealthy man
um when they say the reason it's happened
is just because we keep being phenomenally
unlucky like imagine if you had a doctor who
every single patient that went to him died and
when you asked him why do all your patients
die what he said was well I keep just being
really unlucky and getting really really
sick patients and there's nothing we can do
um I think that this is a line which we are
going to hear a lot from from economists
and politicians which is that there's nothing
that can be done because we keep being unlucky
um and it's important to understand that what
has happened in the last 10-15 years especially
in the last 3-4 years since Covid, was inno way
unpredictable or unexpected, so in Jeremy Hunt
we have a man here who is very wealthy hasbeen
part of a government which has presided over
the largest and fastest ever increase in
inequality in the history of the country
he himself has no doubt benefited massivelythe
Prime Minister Rishi Sunak has benefited massively
and when he's confronted with the question
of why is the economy been bad he says
"well we just keep getting Black Swan events we
keep getting unlucky things happening" and there's
no recognition there's no acknowledgment of this
structural problem which is that inequality keeps
getting worse and worse and the problem is they
can keep making this argument again and again
right the economy will get worse and worse it
will get worse in predictable ways because the
rich have got richer they'll use that money to buy
the assets to the middle class, the middle class
will get poorer that means less spending power
in the economy, that means lower wages,
that means poorer living standards for ordinary
people;all of these things are super predictable
but they can always be blamed on the
events that happen at any given time
so there's no doubt that when things get worse and
worse two three four years down the line and you
know it could even be a labour government by then
they will turn around to whatever happens to be
the most recent news story and say it was because
of of that thing that happened and um the only way
that you ordinary people can defend yourself
against that is to understand what is actually
happening which is that we have a structural
worsening crisis of inequality that will lead
to predictable understandable bad outcomes um I
will keep telling you what will happen um just as
I did from the beginning of Covid and you need to
be prepared to throw this stuff back in the face
of politicians like Jeremy Hunt basically don'tlet
them tell you that the reason that they keepgetting
richer & richer and you keep getting poor& poorer
is because you're just phenomenallyunlucky
this is a system which as it is set upnow
is guaranteed to drive ordinary families
into poverty and um you need to fight back to
stop it from happening so yeah don't accept
nonsense from Jeremy Hunt and his best mate
Rishi Sunak um they're making a fortune it's
just ordinary people that are not so um yep the
Jeremy Hunt and his Black Swan Events good luck
because we are draining the resources ofthis economy
and giving it to the superrich who do not pay any tax
yeah he'smy boy man he's my boy, I like to seea billionaire
just take the mask off foronce & just directly rob everyone